.PU
.TH LSDLDOOM 6 local
.SH NAME
LsdlDoom \- A version of Doom that uses SDL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ll +8
.B {lsdldoom}
[ \-complevel \fIlvl\fR ]
.BR
[ \-width \fIw\fR ] [ \-height \fIh\fR ]
.BR
[ \-iwad \fIiwadname\fR ] [ -file \fIwad1 \&...\fR ] [ \-deh \fIdeh_file\fR ] [ \-noload ]
.BR
[ \-loadgame {0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7} ] [ \-warp { \fImap\fR | \fIepis level\fR } \-skill {1,2,3,4,5} ]
.BR
[ {\-fastdemo,\-timedemo,\-playdemo} \fIdemofile\fR ] [ \-record \fIdemofile\fR ] 
.BR
[ \-net \fIhostname\fR[:\fIport\fR] ]
[ \-deathmatch [ \-altdeath ] ] [ { \-timer \fImins\fR | \-avg }] ]
.BR
[ \-nosound ] [ \-nosfx ] [ \-nomusic] [ \-nojoy ] [ \-grabmouse ]
[ \-noaccel ] [ \-{1,2,3} ]
.BR
[ \-config \fImyconf\fR ] [ \-save \fIsavedir\fR ] 
.BR
[ \-bexout \fIbexdbg\fR ] [ \-debugfile \fIdebug_file\fR ] [ \-devparm ] [ \-noblit ] [ \-nodrawers ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B LsdlDoom
is a version of the 3D shoot'em'up Doom, originally by iD software.
It is based on LxDoom (http://lxdoom.linuxgames.com/) and includes 
all of its features such as network and joystick support as well as 
some new ones. Its goal is to support all platforms SDL supports and 
is currently tested on Linux, Solaris and Windows.
.SH Options
.TP
\-complevel \fIlvl\fR
This sets the compatibility mode that LsdlDoom runs in. 4 levels are 
supported: 0 (Doom v1.9 compatibility), 1 (Boom demo-compatibility), 2 (Boom 
compatibility) and 3 (LxDoom compatibility). The default is set in the 
config file, usually LxDoom compatibility which means most features and 
fewest bugs. If you want to record demos specifically including or 
demonstrating bugs, or compatible/playable with older buggy versions 
of Doom/LxDoom, then use this option. Playing demos/loading games is 
handled on-the-fly overriding this option.
.SH Video Options
.TP
\-width \fIw\fR
Specifies the width of the lsdldoom window, in pixels. Default is 320, 
the width must be greater than 320.
.TP
\-height \fIh\fR
Specifies the height of the lsdldoom window, in pixels. Default is 200, 
the height must be greater than 200.
.SH WAD Options
.TP
\-iwad \fIiwadname\fR
Specifies the location of the IWAD file, typically doom.wad or doom2.wad (or doom2f.wad). This tells lsdldoom where the main .wad file that came with the version of Doom that you own is.
.TP
\-file \fIwad1 \&...\fR
Specifies a list of PWAD files to load in addition to the IWAD file. PWAD files modify the existing Doom game, by adding levels or new sounds or graphics. PWAD files are widely available for download; try ftp.cdrom.com/pub/idgames for starters.
.TP
\-deh \fIdeh_file\fR
Tells lsdldoom to load the dehacked patch \fIdeh_file\fR.
.SH Game Options
.TP
\-loadgame {0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7}
Instructs LsdlDoom to load the specified saved game immediately. 
.TP
\-warp { \fImap\fR | \fIepis\fR \fIlevel\fR }
Tells LsdlDoom to begin a new game immediately. For Doom 1 or Ultimate Doom, you must specify the \fIepis\fRode and \fIlevel\fR
number to begin at (\fIepis\fR is 1 for Knee-Deep in the Dead, 2 for Shores of Hell, 3 for Inferno, 4 for Ultimate Doom; \fIlevel\fR is between 1 and 9). For Doom ][ or Final Doom, you must specify the \fImap\fR to begin at, which is between 1 and 32 (30 for german Doom ][).
.TP
\-skill \fIn\fR
Tells LsdlDoom to begin the game at skill level \fIn\fR (1 for ITYTD, 2 for Not Too Rough, 3 for Hurt Me Plenty, 4 for
Ultraviolent, 5 for Nightmare).
.TP
\-respawn
Tells LsdlDoom that monsters that die should respawn (come back to life) after a while. Not for the inexperienced.
.TP
\-fast
Tells LsdlDoom to make all the monsters move \& react faster. Not for the inexperienced.
.TP
\-nomonsters
Tells LsdlDoom to include no monsters in the game.
.TP
\-fasttimer
Tells LsdlDoom to run the timer as fast as posible.
.SH Multiplayer Options
.TP
\-net \fIhostname\fR[:\fIport\fR]
Specifies that a TCP/IP network game is to be started. \fIhostname\fR is the 
name of the machine on which the network game server is running 
(lxdoom-game-server). For more information about this, see 
lxdoom-game-server(6) and the README that came with lsdldoom. \fIport\fR is the 
port number on the remote machine to which to connect; if not specified, the 
default of 5030 (which is the default for lxdoom-game-server(6)) is assumed. 
The server will configure your LsdlDoom settings, so that all the players have 
the same game settings (skill, map etc). 
.PP
Also, the server may specify additional PWAD files to play with; if you do 
not have the required .WAD file, LsdlDoom will ask the server for a download 
path, and attempt to use wget(1) and if necessary unzip(1) to download 
and extract the required WAD.
.TP
\-port \fIportnum\fR
Specifies the local port to use to communicate with the server in a netgame.
.TP
\-deathmatch
No longer used. Tells LsdlDoom to begin a deathmatch game, but this is overridden 
by the server's settings. Only works for single play (!).
.TP
\-altdeath
Similar to \-deathmatch, but implies a different set of rules for the 
deathmatch game. No longer used (specified by the server).
.TP
\-timer \fImins\fR
No longer used. Specifies that levels will end after \fImins\fR minutes of
play if the level is still being played, but is overridden by the server in 
a netgame. Not really useful for single play.
.TP
\-avg
Equivalent to -timer 20
.SH Demo (LMP) Options
.TP
\-record \fIdemofile\fR
Instructs LsdlDoom to begin recording a demo, to be stored in \fIdemofile\fR.lmp. You should specify \fBgame options\fR to specify
which level and skill to record at.
.TP
\-playdemo \fIdemofile\fR
Play the recorded demo \fIdemofile\fR.lmp
.TP
\-timedemo \fIdemofile\fR
Play the recorded demo \fIdemofile\fR.lmp, reporting information about the length of the demo (in gametics) afterwards.
.TP
\-fastdemo \fIdemofile\fR
Play the recorded demo \fIdemofile\fR.lmp as fast as possible. Useful for 
benchmarking LsdlDoom, as compared to other versions of Doom.
.SH I/O Options
.TP
\-nosound
Disables all sound effects and in-game music.
.TP
\-nosfx
Disables sound effects during the game.
.TP
\-nomusic
Disables playing of music in the game.
.TP
\-nojoy
Disables joystick support.
.TP
\-{1,2,3}
Specifies the scale factor by which to enlarge the window. The default, -1, 
displays the normal 320x200 pixel Doom screen (or whatever size is specified by 
the -width and -height parameters or in the config file for lsdldoom). 
If this window is too small, try using -2 or -3 to enlarge the window.
.SH Configuration
.TP
\-config \fImyconf\fR
Loads an alternative configuration file, named \fImyconf\fR. The default is 
boom.cfg, taken from the same directory as LsdlDoom was run from.
.TP
\-save \fIsavedir\fR
Causes lsdldoom to save games in the directory specified by \fIsavedir\fR 
instead of ~/.lxdoom/.
.SH Debugging/Profiling Options
.TP
\-devparm
Development mode. This used to be required for many things, but is almost redundant now. It's only significant effect (to my
knowledge) is to show a series of white dots in the lower left corner of the lsdldoom window. The current frame rate is (I
think) 35 / (number of dots). .TP
\-debugfile \fIdebug_file\fR
Causes some debugging information, mainly network info I believe, to be written to the named file as lsdldoom runs.
.TP
\-nodrawers
Causes no rendering to be done. The only conceivable use of this is to test the speed of the other routines in the program, when combined with -timedemo.
.TP
\-noblit
Causes no copying to the screen from the rendering buffer to be performed. The only conceivable use of this is to test the speed of the other routines in the program, when combined with -timedemo.
.TP
\-bexout \fIbexdbg\fR
Causes diagnostics related to bex and dehecked file processing to be written 
to the names file.
.SH More Information
wget(1), unzip(1), boom.cfg(5), lxdoom-game-server(6)
.PP
For more information, see the README that came with LsdlDoom, the Boom 
documentation, and your original Doom documentation.
.PP
Doom is a registered trademark of id software (http://www.idsoftware.com).
.SH Author
LsdlDoom was ported to SDL by Sam Lantinga and is currently maintained by Jess Haas
(jessh@lbjhs.net).
.PP
LxDoom was ported to Linux and is maintained by Colin Phipps 
(cph@lxdoom.linuxgames.com). (http://lxdoom.linuxgames.com)
.PP
LxDoom was based on Boom, an enhanced version of Doom for DOS, written by 
TeamTNT (http://www.teamtnt.com).
.PP
Boom was based on an early version of DosDoom (http://frag.com/dosdoom) which 
was based on the original Doom source code as released by id Software 
(http://www.idsoftware.com). See the file AUTHORS for more details.
