------------------------------------------------------------
THE STORY SO FAR
------------------------------------------------------------
You're a marine, one of Earth's toughest, hardened in
combat and trained for action. Three years ago you assaulted
a superior officer for ordering his soldiers to fire upon
civilians. He and his body cast were shipped to Pearl
Harbor, while you were transferred to Mars, home of the
Union Aerospace Corporation.

The UAC is a multi-planetary conglomerate with radioactive
waste facilities on Mars and its two moons, Phobos and
Deimos. With no action for fifty million miles, your day
consisted of suckin' dust and watchin' restricted flicks in
the rec room.

For the last four years the military, UAC's biggest
supplier, has used the remote facilities on Phobos and
Deimos to conduct various secret projects, including
research on inter-dimensional space travel. So far they have
been able to open gateways between Phobos and Deimos,
throwing a few gadgets into one and watching them come out
the other. Recently however, the Gateways have grown
dangerously unstable. Military "volunteers" entering them
have either disappeared or been stricken with a strange form
of insanity--babbling vulgarities, bludgeoning anything that
breathes, and finally suffering an untimely death of full-
body explosion. Matching heads with torsos to send home to
the folks became a full-time job. Latest military reports
state that the research is suffering a small set-back, but
everything is under control.

A few hours ago, Mars received a garbled message from
Phobos. "We require immediate military support. Something
fraggin' evil is coming out of the Gateways! Computer
systems have gone berserk!" The rest was incoherent. Soon
afterwards, Deimos simply vanished from the sky. Since then,
attempts to establish contact with either moon have been
unsuccessful.

You and your buddies, the only combat troop for fifty
million miles were sent up pronto to Phobos. You were
ordered to secure the perimeter of the base while the rest
of the team went inside. For several hours, your radio
picked up the sounds of combat: guns firing, men yelling
orders, screams, bones cracking, then finally, silence.
Seems your buddies are dead.

It's Up To You
Things aren't looking too good. You'll never navigate off
the planet on your own. Plus, all the heavy weapons have
been taken by the assault team leaving you with only a
pistol. If only you could get your hands around a plasma
rifle or even a shotgun you could take a few down on your
way out. Whatever killed your buddies deserves a couple of
pellets in the forehead. Securing your helmet, you exit the
landing pod. Hopefully you can find more substantial
firepower somewhere within the station.

As you walk through the main entrance of the base, you hear
animal-like growls echoing throughout the distant corridors.
They know you're here. There's no turning back now.

-------------------------------------------------------------
OBJECT OF THE GAME
-------------------------------------------------------------
Welcome to DOOM, a lightning-fast virtual reality adventure
where you're the toughest space trooper ever to suck vacuum.
Your mission is to shoot your way through a monster-infested
holocaust. Living to tell the tale if possible.

The gameplay for DOOM is quite simple. This is not a
cumbersome adventure game, but an action-oriented slugathon.
You don't need the reflexes of a hyperactive eight-year-old
to win, either--using your wits is IMPORTANT. To escape DOOM,
you need both brains and the killer instinct.

-------------------------------------------------------------
USING THE DOOM MENU
-------------------------------------------------------------
When you run DOOM a self-running demo will begin. To get to
the menu press the Spacebar. Use the arrow keys, mouse, or
joystick to move the skull cursor up and down. When the
skull is adjacent to a desired selection, press the Enter
key, left mouse button, or joystick Fire button to activate
that selection.

If you're in a game, you can bring up the menu at any time
by pressing the Escape key. Many of the Menu options can be
activated directly by using a function key, thus bypassing
the menus entirely. To exit the menu, press the Escape key
or to return to the previous menu from a submenu press the
Backspace key.

NEW GAME
If you want to jump into the action, select this. First,
DOOM will ask you which episode to play. Then, DOOM will ask
you to set the difficulty level. Each difficulty level
differs in the toughness of the enemies you'll face.

LOADING AND SAVING YOUR GAME (F2 and F3)
Games can be saved or loaded at any time during the
gameplay. To save a game, move the skull cursor to an empty
slot (or one you don't mind writing over), and press the
Enter key. This option is only available if you are
currently in a game. To load a game, simply select the
appropriate game from the Load Game menu.

QUICKSAVE: Pressing the function key F6 allows you to Save a
game without leaving the action. The first time QUICKSAVE is
used in a given game, the standard Save menu appears. Select
a slot. From then on, pressing F6 automatically saves the
game to that slot without interrupting the fun of smackin'
baddies around. Pressing F9 loads in the last QUICKSAVE game
after prompting you.

READ THIS! (F1)
This, the most important part of DOOM, tells you how to
order other copies of DOOM, and contains help for playing
DOOM.

QUIT GAME (F10)
Quit Game enables you to quit from DOOM.

END GAME (F7)
This allows you to end the current game without exiting Doom.

MESSAGES (F8)
In DOOM, whenever you pick up an item, you'll receive
information about the thing you just picked up. This option
lets you toggle DOOM's messages on and off.

GRAPHIC DETAIL (F5)
This function does nothing in XDoom.

SCREEN SIZE (+ and -)
Just below this option is a bar with a sliding marker. When
this option is selected, you can use the arrow keys to slide
the marker back and forth to adjust the viewing area. A
smaller viewing area increases the smoothness of the
animation on slower systems.

SOUND VOLUME (F4)
This selection has two bars with sliding markers, allowing
adjustment of the volume from "off" to "maximum." One bar
modifies the music while the other bar modifies the sound
effects volume.

MOUSE SENSITIVITY
This selection lets you adjust the sensitivity of your mouse
control. Just below this option is a bar with a sliding
marker. When this option is selected, you can use the arrow
keys to slide the marker back and forth to adjust the
sensitivity of the mouse.

TIP: Save your game and save it often. When you die, you're
back to the beginning of the level, toting that little
pistol again. That ain't good, especially after you progress
to some of the tougher levels.

GAMMA CORRECTION: On some monitors, DOOM may appear too dark.
Press the function key, F-11 to improve the view.

-------------------------------------------------------------
ON-SCREEN INFORMATION
-------------------------------------------------------------
DOOM provides on-screen information that's necessary to
survive.

THE STATUS BAR
At the bottom of your screen is a gray bar (unless you've
selected the largest possible screen size). From left to
right, the segments of this bar indicate:

1.MAIN AMMO: In big fat numbers, you see the number of shots
you've got left in the weapon you're currently using.

2.HEALTH: You start out at 100%, but you won't stay there
long. At 0% it's time to start over. Try a little harder
next time!

3.ARMS: This list of numbers shows which weapons are
available. If a number is highlighted, the weapon accessible
by pressing that number is available. ("1" is always
available.)

4.YOUR MUG: This portrait isn't just for looks. When you're
hit, your face looks in the direction from which the damage
came, telling you which direction to return fire. Also, as
you take damage you'll begin to look like raw hamburger--as
shown to the left.

5.ARMOR: Your armor helps you out as long as it lasts. Keep
an eye on it, because when it goes, you might, too.

6.KEY CARDS: You can see any keys you possess right here.
There are three key colors; Yellow, Red, and Blue.

7.AMMO: This shows how much of each type of ammo you're
carrying and the maximum amount you could carry--if you had
it.

MESSAGES
Often you'll find yourself running over various bonus items
and evil artifacts. DOOM tells you what you're picking up by
printing a message on the game screen--unless you've turned
the messages off.

------------------------------------------------------------
THE AUTOMAP
------------------------------------------------------------
To help you find your way around DOOM, you're equipped with
an automap device. By pressing the Tab key, you replace your
normal view with a top-down map of everything you've seen up
to date. The white arrow represents you, and points in the
direction you're looking.

You can zoom in and out by pressing "+" or "-". Press the
number "0" to toggle between zoom and full view. To mark
your location on the map press the "M" key. This will place
a number over your location. To clear all the numbers from
the map, press the "C" key.

Using the arrow keys, you can move yourself, while viewing
the Automap. This is dangerous, since you can't see the
enemy while viewing the Automap. To scroll the Automap
without moving yourself, turn off Follow mode. Pressing the
"F" key will toggle Follow mode on and off.

-------------------------------------------------------------
CONTROLLING THE ACTION
-------------------------------------------------------------
Most of the play commands in DOOM are a simple keypress
away. You can use either your keyboard, mouse, joystick, and
combinations of both to move, pick up items, shoot, and open
doors.

MOVING
At first, you might find yourself bumping into walls while
demons beat on you. Once you've got movement down,
everything else follows.

WALKING: Use the up and down arrow keys to walk forward and
backward.

TURNING: The left and right arrow keys turn you left and
right.

RUNNING: Hold down the right Shift key and the appropriate
arrow key to speed yourself up.

STRAFE: By holding down the Alt key and the right or left
arrow key, you can sidestep, rather than turn left or right.

JOYSTICK OR MOUSE:If you are using a joystick, use button 1
to shoot and button 2 to open doors and activate switches.
Gravis PC Gamepads have a third and fourth button. These can
be used as a Strafe and a Run button, respectively. If you
are using a mouse, use button 1 to shoot and button 2 to
walk forward. Double-click button 2 to open doors and
activate switches. With a three-button mouse, use the third
button to strafe.

PICKING UP STUFF
To pick up an object, just walk over it. You're smart, and
know if you need to take it.

MESSAGING: Pressing RETURN will show you the last message
displayed on your heads-up display.

-------------------------------------------------------------
USING DOORS, SWITCHES & ELEVATORS
-------------------------------------------------------------
To open most doors and operate switches, stand directly in
front of them and press the Spacebar. When you successfully
operate a switch, it will change in some way (lights up,
flips a handle, etc). If a switch does not change after a
couple of tries, it is probably assigned to do a task that
cannot yet be accomplished.

DOORS WITH MOUSE: On a three-button mouse you may double click the
middle button to open doors. You can also double-click the right mouse
button (strafe button) to open doors.

LOCKED DOORS: Some doors have security locks, and require
you to have a color coded (yellow, red, and blue) security
card or skull key to open them. Other locked doors are
operated by a switch on a nearby wall. Rather than walking
up to the door, you'll need to operate the switch.

HIDDEN DOORS: Some doors are hidden. Many of these can be
opened by finding a switch. In some cases you just need to
walk up to the wall and press the Spacebar. If you've found
a secret door, it will open for you. There are clues that
reveal a secret door--a wall that's shifted down or a
different color, a flashing light on a wall, etc.

ELEVATORS: You'll see platforms that raise and lower. Some
platforms operate continuously, while others must be
activated. Some of them sense your proximity and lower
automatically. Others have a nearby switch. Those without a
switch can usually be operated by walking up to the platform
and pressing the Spacebar.

TELEPORTERS: Teleporters can be identified by an evil red
symbol on the floor beneath them. To use a teleporter, walk
over the symbol.

-------------------------------------------------------------
COMPLETING AN AREA
-------------------------------------------------------------
At the end of each area in DOOM there is an exit chamber,
generally marked by a special door or an "EXIT" sign. Enter
this chamber and press the switch inside to exit the area
and head onward.  When you finish an area, an Achievement
Screen tallies your performance. Hidden regions located,
ratio of kills, percentage of treasure found, your
completion time, and a par completion time are all
displayed. To leave this screen, press the use key.

ETERNAL LIFE AFTER DEATH
If you die, you restart the level at the beginning with a
pistol and some bullets. You have no "lives" limit--you can
keep restarting the level as often as you're killed. The
entire level is restarted from scratch, too. Monsters you
killed before are back again, just like you.

-------------------------------------------------------------
FIREPOWER AND HOW TO USE IT
-------------------------------------------------------------
WEAPONS: At first, you have only your pistol and your fists
for protection. When you run over a new weapon, you'll
automatically equip yourself with it. As the game
progresses, you'll need to choose between firearms. The
numeric keys select particular weapons (you cannot use the
keypad keys for this selection). The weapons are:

1 = Fist

2 = Pistol

3 = Shotguns deliver a heavy punch at close range and a
generous pelting from a distance.

4 = Chainguns direct heavy firepower into your opponent,
making him do the chaingun cha-cha.

5 = Rocket Launchers deliver an explosive rocket that can
turn several baddies inside-out.

6 = Plasma Rifles shoot multiple rounds of plasma energy--
frying some demon butt!

7 = BFG 9000s are the prize of the military's arsenal. Great
for clearing the room of those unwelcome guests. Shoot it
and see for yourself.

FIRING: To use a weapon, point it towards the enemy and
press the Ctrl key, or hold down the Ctrl key for rapid
fire. If your shots hit a bad guy, you'll see splattering
blood. Don't worry if the enemy is higher or lower than you.
If you can see a monster, you can shoot it.

AMMO: Different weapons use different types of ammo. When
you run over ammo DOOM automatically loads the correct
weapon.

You have a maximum limit on the amount of ammo you can
carry, too. These are listed on the right side of your
status bar. Also, when you find a weapon that you already
possess, don't scorn it! Picking it up also gives you ammo.

TIP: When you're comfortable playing the game, try using the
keyboard and the mouse simultaneously. The mouse provides
fine control for aiming your weapon (allowing you to
smoothly rotate right and left) while the keyboard permits
you to activate the many useful functions of the game.

-------------------------------------------------------------
DANGEROUS DOOM ENVIRONMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------
Some parts of the DOOM environment can be more dangerous
than the monsters you'll face. Areas containing exploding
barrels, radioactive waste, or crushing ceilings should be
approached with caution.

EXPLODING BARRELS: Scattered around the base are drums
containing fuel, toxic waste, or some other volatile
substance. If your shots hit one of these barrels, it's
kablooey time! It might take several bullets to set off a
barrel, but a single blast of any of the other weapons
usually does the trick.

SLIME AND OTHER RADIOACTIVE WASTE: Many of the areas in DOOM
contain pools of dangerous liquids that will damage you if
you walk through them. There are several varieties of waste,
each doing an increasing amount of damage. If it looks
fluid, beware!

CRUSHING CEILINGS: Some of the ceilings in DOOM can smash
you, making you cry blood. Often you'll be able to see the
ceiling moving before you go under it, but not always. Be
careful and Save often!

TIP: Barrels can often be the most devastating weapon in
your arsenal--delivering a body-blasting explosion to all
nearby purgatory pedestrians. Wait until several evil guys
get next to a barrel and blast away at the can, then watch
'em all go boom!

-------------------------------------------------------------
HEALTH AND ARMOR
-------------------------------------------------------------
Even for a tough hombre like you, DOOM can be a deadly
place. Whenever you are injured, the screen will flash red,
and your health will decrease. Keep an eye on your health or
you'll end up face down.

HEALING: When you're hurt, you'll want to get healed back up
as soon as possible. Fortunately, Medikits and Stimpacks are
frequently scattered around the base. Grab them if possible.

Stimpacks give you a quick injection of booster enzymes that
make you feel like a new man--at least, to a degree.

Medikits are even better, and include bandages, antitoxins,
and other medical supplies to make you feel a lot healthier.

ARMOR: Two types of body armor can be found laying around.
Both reduce damage done to you. Unfortunately, both
deteriorate with use, and eventually are destroyed by enemy
attacks, leaving you in need of replacement armor.

Security armor (green) is a light weight kevlar vest that's
perfect for riot control.

Combat armor (blue) is a heavy duty jacket composed of a
titanium derivative--useful for protection against real
firepower, like the kind you're gonna face.  If you're
wearing armor, you only pick up a replacement suit if it
provides more protection than what you're now wearing.

-------------------------------------------------------------
POWER-UPS
-------------------------------------------------------------
Other bits of "challenging electronics" may be found in
DOOM. Most of these are pretty doggone handy, so grab them
when able. These special items have a duration of either the
entire level, a specific amount of time, or just provide an
instant benefit. A few of them affect your game screen so
you can tell when they are active. For example, when you
pick up a radiation suit, the game screen turns green. As
the suit deteriorates the screen will flash. This is a hint
to get out of the radioactive ooze now!

Radiation Suits provide protection against radioactivity,
heat, and other low-intensity forms of energy. Basically,
these suits enable you to wade through the radioactive ooze
without taking damage. While a suit holds out, your screen
will have a greenish tint. Duration: Time Based

Berserk Packs heal you, plus act as a super-adrenaline rush,
enormously boosting your muscle power. Since you're already
a pretty meaty guy, this enhanced strength lets you tear
ordinary dolts limb from limb, and you can even splatter
those demons without too much trouble. However, you've got
to use your Fist attack to get the benefit of the Berserk
attack bonus. When you become Berserk, your screen will
briefly turn red. Duration: One Level

Backpacks increase the amount of ammo you can carry. In
addition, whenever you find a backpack, you receive extra
ammunition.

Computer Maps are a handy find, updating your Automap with a
complete map to the entire area, including all secret or
hidden areas. Areas you haven't been to are mapped in grey.
Duration: One Level

Light Amplification Visors allow you to see clearly even in
pitch dark. Duration: Time Based

-------------------------------------------------------------
ARTIFACTS
-------------------------------------------------------------
A few artifacts from the other dimension are now laying
around and you may want them, too.

Health Potions provide a small boost to your health even
past your normal 100%!

Spiritual Armor provides a little extra protection above and
beyond your normal armor.

Soul Spheres are rarely encountered objects that provide a
large boost to your health. A close encounter with one of
these and you'll feel healthier than ever!

Blur Artifacts are strange orbs that make it difficult for
others to spot you. The enemy can still see you, but most of
their attacks will be less than accurate.
Duration: Time Based

Invulnerability Artifacts are products of the Anomaly that
render you immune to all damage. Pretty cool, until the
effect wears off. When you're invulnerable your screen will
be white--your punishment for being tough.
Duration: Time Based

TIP: Create dissension among demons by maneuvering them into
a crossfire. If a bad guy is hit by another demon, he'll
turn his rage towards the poor jerk with the pitiful aim. If
this happens, let 'em at each other--it's always best to let
the bad guys do the work for you. (This isn't effective with
projectiles fired between demons of the same form.)

-------------------------------------------------------------
THE ENEMY
-------------------------------------------------------------
From the very first moment you enter the door, till the last
gunshot of the game, you'll be fighting a host of baddies.
Some are just regular guys with a bad attitude, others are
straight from Hell. Some of the monsters you'll face aren't
shown here. Don't say we didn't warn you.

Former Humans (dudes in filth-covered combat suits): Just a
few days ago, you were probably swapping war stories with
one of these guys. Now it's time to swap some lead upside
their head.

Former Human Sergeants (dudes in black armor, also filthy):
Same as above, but much meaner, and tougher. These walking
shotguns provide you with a few extra holes if you're not
careful!

Imps (brown thorny hominids): You thought an imp was a cute
little dude in a red suit with a pitchfork. Where did these
brown bastards come from? They heave balls o' fire down your
throat and take several bullets to die. It's time to find a
weapon better than that pistol if you're going to face more
than one of these S.O.B.s.

Demons (pink horrors, vaguely humanoid): Sort of like a shaved
gorilla, except with horns, a big head, lots of teeth, and
harder to kill. Don't get too close or they'll rip your
fraggin' head off.

Spectres (vague, half-formed shapes): Great. Just what you
needed. An invisible (nearly) monster.

Lost Souls (flying skulls): Dumb. Tough. Flies. On fire.
'Nuff said.

Cacodemons (gigantic floating one-eyed heads): They float in
the air, belch ball-lightning, and boast one Hell of a big
mouth. You're toast if you get too close to these
monstrosities.

Barons of Hell (you'll know 'em when you see 'em): Tough as
a dump truck and nearly as big, these goliaths are the worst
thing on two legs since Tyrannosaurus rex.

-------------------------------------------------------------
MULTIPLAYER MODE
-------------------------------------------------------------

1. Install DOOM as described in the manual.

2. Launch DOOM from the SETUP program, by going to the
directory in which you installed DOOM, type SETUP, and press
the ENTER key. (If you are installing DOOM for the first
time the SETUP program will be automatically launched.)
Unlike playing DOOM in single player mode, DOOM in
multiplayer mode must be run either from the SETUP program
or by using the command line parameters mentioned later in
this addendum.

3. The SETUP program not only allows you to configure DOOM
to your system but lets you tell DOOM information that is
necessary for the multiplayer game, (i.e. number of players,
skill level, mode, etc.) The SETUP program is simple to
use--providing context sensitive help at the bottom of the
screen.

NUMBER OF PLAYERS: A maximum of four people can play
multiplayer DOOM on a network.

COMPATIBLE NETWORKS: To play multiplayer, you must have a
network that uses the IPX protocol. Check your network
manuals for information regarding your protocol. Novell
networks use the IPX protocol.

MULTIPLE GAMES ON THE NET: To play a multiplayer game while
another group is also playing the multiplayer game, you'll
need to change your network port address from the SETUP
application. The port address tells your server where to
send information that is sent over the network. Network
addresses range from 1-64000. You should refer to the person
in charge of your network for possible port addresses.

-------------------------------------------------------------
MULTIPLAYER INSTRUCTIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------
Many of the rules for playing DOOM change for the
multiplayer game. Read the following information carefully
before you begin to play DOOM in multiplayer mode.

MENUS: When you activate the Options menu or submenus, the
game KEEPS RUNNING so that other players can continue with
the action. So it is best to find a safe place before
adjusting screen sizes or sounds.

UNPAUSE: A player may Pause the game by pressing the PAUSE
key, but any other player can Unpause the game by pressing
the PAUSE key again. Make sure it's OK with your buddies
before taking a breather.

SAVE: When you do a savegame during a network game, it saves
on every player's system in the savegame slot you select,
writing over whatever was there. Before saving the game,
players should agree on a safe slot to save in.

LOAD: You cannot load a saved game while playing a
multiplayer game. To load a game everyone must quit from the
current game and restart the game from the saved game. To
start a game from a saved game, you can either select it
from the SETUP program or identify it as a command line
parameter.

WEAPONS: When a player runs over a weapon, he picks it up,
but the weapon remains in the game for other players to
take. Note: Shotguns dropped by former human sergeants are
removed from the game after being picked up or smashed.

DEATH: If you die and restart in the level, previously taken
items and destroyed monsters DON'T reappear. Even though
you've died, other players have survived. We didn't want to
undo all of their fine destruction by reviving every monster
in the area. However, this also means the level will
eventually run dry of monsters and ammunition. You'll have
to decide when the level is played out.

UNIFORM COLORS: In net games, each player's uniform is a
different color. The color of your character is the color
behind your face on the status bar. The colors are BROWN,
INDIGO (black), GREEN, and RED.

CHAT MODE: In a multiplayer game you can communicate with
other players in the Chat mode. To enter into Chant mode and
broadcast a message to all the players, press the letter t.
A cursor will appear where your messaging is normally
placed. To broadcast to a specific player, instead of
pressing t you'll need to press the first letter of the
player's color. (B)rown, (I)ndigo, (G)reen, and (R)ed. For
example, to send a message to the brown character, you would
press the letter b.

CHAT MACROS: In a multiplayer game, you can send your own
pre-defined macros (defined in the SETUP program) by initiating
Chat mode (as stated above), then holding ALT and pressing the
number key that corresponds to the macro you wish to send. For
example, if macro #2 is "Eat it and die!", initiate Chat mode
by pressing 'T', then hold down ALT and press 2.

EXITING A LEVEL: When one player exits a level, all players
instantly exit with him, regardless of their position or
their status.

-------------------------------------------------------------
COOPERATIVE OR DEATHMATCH MODE
-------------------------------------------------------------
There are two ways to play multiplayer--DeathMatch and
Cooperative. In Cooperative mode the players work together.
In DeathMatch mode your mission is to kill everything that
moves, including your buddies. You can choose which mode you
wish to play from the SETUP application. The differences
between Cooperative and DeathMatch mode are as follows:

WHERE YOU START: In Cooperative mode each player begins in
the same area. In DeathMatch mode the players begin in
completely different areas--if you want to see your buddy
you'll need to hunt him down. Plus, each time you die,
you'll restart in one of several random locations.

KEYS: Unlike in single-player or Cooperative mode gameplay,
in DeathMatch mode the players start each location with the
keys necessary for opening any locked door in that area.

STATUS BAR: In DeathMatch mode the ARMS section on the
status bar is replaced with "FRAG." The FRAG section
displays the number of times you've killed your opponents.

AUTOMAP: In Cooperative mode the Automap works the same way
it does in single-player mode. Each player is represented by
a different color arrow. In DeathMatch mode you won't
receive the pleasure of seeing your opponents on the map.
Just like the monsters, your friends could be just around
the corner, and you won't know until you face them.

SPY MODE: If you're playing in Cooperative mode, press F12
to toggle through the other players' viewpoint(s). Press any
other key to return to your view. You still retain your own
status bar at the bottom, and if your view reddens from pain
it is YOU, not your partner, who has been hit.

INTERMISSION SCREENS: In both Cooperative and DeathMatch
mode the intermission screen tallies your achievement. In
Cooperative mode the intermission screen lists the
achievements for all players in the game. In DeathMatch mode
the intermission provides a death count on everyone, letting
you know who killed whom.

-------------------------------------------------------------
DEATHMATCH MODE GAMEPLAY NOTES
-------------------------------------------------------------
The rules for completing or winning a DeathMatch game have
intentionally been left general. Any player can exit an area
and force all of the players to move to the next area. Also,
there is no limit on how many kills are required to declare
a player the winner. We decided to leave this up to you. You
know what you like best!

Note: Before you play DOOM in DeathMatch mode you should be
familiar with the layout of every area in DOOM. As you know,
in DeathMatch mode your startup location is random and often
in an area that is very hostile.

-------------------------------------------------------------
MULTIPLAYER DEMO RECORDING
-------------------------------------------------------------
You can record your tournaments for posterity!  To record multi-
player demos, add the line "-record demoz" to the command-line.
Make sure the other player is recording also, or it won't work.
If you need more time, add the "-maxdemo <K>" option to increase
demo buffer space.  Make sure both of you specify the same amount.
DOOM defaults to 128K of demo buffer space, to specify 1meg you
would type "-maxdemo 1024" on the command-line.

IF DOOM BOMBS WITH A "Z_MALLOC" ERROR, YOU DON'T HAVE ENOUGH MEMORY
FOR THE MAXDEMO AMOUNT SPECIFIED!

When you wish to stop recording, press the Q or F10 keys and both
players will exit.  To play the demo back, merely type,
"DOOM -playdemo demoz" and the demo will play back.  To see the
other player, press the F12 key.  Press F12 to toggle between all
players in the demo.  The TAB key will display the automap.

You can set the name of the demo file to anything you want. "demoz"
was just an example name.
